{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Monaco;
\f3\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;\f4\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier-Oblique;\f5\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;
\f6\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f7\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red34\green45\blue53;\red255\green255\blue255;\red242\green242\blue242;
\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c17647\c23137\c27059;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c96078\c96078\c96078;
\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Use text tools from assn 1 to break down 500mb file into smaller sets to test code on. \
Use DC data set\
Place in data/DC\
Must unzip complete 500 mb file to repository\'92s data.USA_full\
\
MIUST HARDCODE NAME OF FILE, BUT NOT DIRECTORY INTO CODE\
\
Notes on how to do this properly:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 You must combine the user-specified directory with a hard-coded filename to yield a relative path that will let your program open the files area_titles.csv and 2018.annual.singlefile.csv in that directory.\
While there are lots of ways to combine paths, let me show you the best way:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs36 \cf2 \cb4 filename = f"\{sys.argv[1]\}/area_titles.csv"\

\fs18 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 Notice the frontslash.\'a0 Python will convert this to a backslash if you're on Windows, and it will work transparently on Mac and Linux.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\
Examples of command line input:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 $ python src/main.py data/DC\
$ python src/main.py data/USA_full\
\
Print usage message if no directory is given\
Example:\
$ python src/main.py\
Usage: src/main.py DATA_DIRECTORY\
\
Do not need to account for non-existent directory input\
\
Src/Report.py should not be modified\
\
FINAL SUBMISSION MUST NOT WRITE ANY OTHER DATA TO STDOUT\
\
area_titles.csv (should be hard-coded into program)\
- contains area_fips and area_title\
Create a dictionary (dict()) of area_titles.csv\
Review lecture notes demo Fri Oct 04 about dictionaries\
\
READ AND UNDERSTAND QCEW Area Code Guide (link in instructions)\
\
You can decide which lines to consider in final report based solely from area_fips. \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf5 The report should contain data only from counties and county-equivalent divisions (Louisiana has parishes, Alaska has boroughs and census areas, Puerto Rico has Municipios). Your report must include "Overseas Locations"; "Multicounty, Not Statewide"; "Out-of-State"; and "Unknown Or Undefined" areas. 
\f4\i All of these are easily identified by looking only at their FIPS codes.
\f3\i0 \
The report must include data from all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and territories of the United States of America. Your report must not include US aggregate data, per-state aggregate data, nor should it consider metropolitan areas. Inclusion of these areas will result in an incorrect report. 
\f4\i Again, all of these can be easily identified by the form of their FIPS codes.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa319\partightenfactor0

\f5\i0\b\fs36 \cf5 Exclude these areas\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f6\b0 \cf5 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 "U.S. combined" and "TOTAL" FIPS areas (Starts with CS ex. CS176) (Starts with US ex. USMSA)\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 All areas labeled "statewide"  (Ends in 000 ex.  21000)\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 MicroSAs (Starts with C ex. C3350)\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 MSAs (Starts with M or CMS ex. M2760 or CMS77)\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 CSAs\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Federal Bureau of Investigation \'96 undesignated\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa319\partightenfactor0

\f5\b \cf5 Do 
\f7\i\b0 not
\f5\i0\b  exclude these areas\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\f6\b0 \cf5 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Puerto Rico\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Washington, D.C.\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Virgin Islands\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf5 \

\fs26 We are just working with one file: 2018.annual.singlefile.csv\
The fields of this file that we want are\
1. total_annual_wages\
2. annual_avg_emplvl\
3. annual_avg_estabs\
\
We also must exclude some lines completely because we don\'92t want to count the same info twice\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa319\partightenfactor0

\f5\b \cf5 Excluded areas\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f6\b0 \cf5 Some rows contain data for areas that do not belong in our report. You can identify which lines to skip by inspecting the FIPS code column.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa319\partightenfactor0

\f5\b \cf5 "All Industries"\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f6\b0 \cf5 Keep records where 
\f3 industry_code
\f6  is equal to "10" and 
\f3 own_code
\f6  is equal to "0".\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa319\partightenfactor0

\f5\b \cf5 "Software Publishing Industry"\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f6\b0 \cf5 Keep records where 
\f3 industry_code
\f6  is equal to "5112" and 
\f3 own_code
\f6  is equal to "5".\

\f5\b All other industry codes are excluded from the report.
\f6\b0\fs24 \
\
Cannot use python csv module for processing CSV data\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf5 \
\

\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
}